[Music]
what will happen if you stay silent for
a month have you ever stopped to think
about how loud the world is there is so
much sound coming from machinery
electronics the hustle and bustle of the
masses the sounds of wildlife and pets
and every single thing you say sometimes
you just need some peace and that's
where practicing silence comes in keep
watching to learn more about what this
practice involves how it can change your
life and how you can take on the
challenge and don't forget to click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life how many words do you speak
per day you might be surprised to learn
that women speak about 16,000 215 words
per day while men speak about 15,000 669
words and that's according to dr.
Matthias mell in a study published in
of course these numbers vary greatly
depending on your job how many people
you live with and how many people you
interact with every day
can you envision the enormous amount of
information going through our brains at
any given moment living with this level
of information in the middle of chores
work family a social life and life goals
can be like driving down the highway so
quickly that you go off the road and
forget where you're going so sometimes
you need to hit the brakes and come to a
hard stop to get your bearings you might
take a vow of silence following Eastern
traditions or maybe a friend did it and
recommended it to you perhaps you're
seeking more mindfulness and awareness
in your life whatever the reason
practicing silence for a month can be a
frightening experience at first if
someone challenged you right now to stop
talking for a month the idea might send
panic waves through your body people
think that being bound to silence for
awhile means losing something maybe
losing the ability to communicate and
losing freedom they think it's like
being imprisoned in reality being silent
for a few days or a
Thor even longer can give you a feeling
of liberation you might have never
experienced before it can also lead to a
stronger connection to yourself and
offer you a genuine sense of peace if
you had the time and the silence to
process the ruckus of life you would be
able to find your real self underneath
waiting to be discovered this is how
silence can transform your life in a
month it'll take the pressure off when
someone asks you a question do you feel
compelled to give an immediate answer
there's this strange pressure that tells
people they must always have an answer
the pressure to respond immediately may
make you say something you don't fully
mean or respond before you fully
understand what's at stake if you don't
have to give immediate answers you won't
be constantly on the spot so you can
expect your anxiety levels to diminish
being silent will allow you to have time
to think about what the real response is
allowing you to come up with an answer
that is genuine to you having this
opportunity is important especially if
the question was pointed or difficult
and would have caused a stressful
response remaining silent is one way to
be proactive not reactive to stressful
situations it'll help you make happier
decisions in the long run do you ever
feel lost maybe you don't know where
you're going what project you'll tackle
next or how you can solve a problem
maybe you're facing an important life
change it might be time for you to
choose a career you might be considering
moving to a different country or state
or maybe you're considering moving in
with a partner or leaving home people
have a lot of different ways to find the
answers to life's most important
questions some will speak to friends or
family some will look online and others
might turn to guidance columns so how
can you ensure your final decision is
true to yourself by practicing silence
you can ensure that in addition to
hearing everyone's opinion about your
dilemma you hear your own opinion one
that you might be afraid to share or
that was hiding underneath your own
talking or all the other voices it'll
make you think before you speak do you
ever say things you don't mean maybe you
accidentally told someone a secret
you've promised to keep for a friend you
might have said a mean thing to your
partner while fighting or spilled your
whole life story to someone who wasn't
interested it happens to everyone people
are so used to talking that they do it
when it's inappropriate and sometimes
they don't know how to stop sometimes
talking is a way of giving voice to
anxious and stressful thoughts but
endless talking can prevent you from
finding a solution keeping mum isn't
only simpler it can also stop you from
putting your foot in your mouth moreover
being able to talk in simple concise and
honest terms can be a sign of greater
wisdom
it'll make you comfortable with silence
do you feel like you always need to fill
up silence with words or maybe you know
a person who can't be silent for a
single moment when you see them coming
you know you'll lose your peace of mind
a lot of people are uncomfortable with
silence finding it almost physically
painful particularly during social
interactions when you practice this
you'll learn how to be in a room filled
with people and know that nothing bad
will come from being silent you will
also see how silence is sometimes the
thing a person needs to dig deeper into
themselves and share more vulnerable
information with you it'll make you a
better listener if a friend is telling
you all about their problems at work
it's natural to want to pitch in and
offer solutions for the problem but
sometimes all people need is a friendly
person who will listen to them once
someone has listened to their issue the
negative power of the problem can be
reduced enough that they alone are able
to find the solution it is substantially
more powerful when a person comes to
their own conclusions when you abstain
from filling up space with sound they
are more able to own up to their own
space by paying attention through eye
contact you can also catch body language
clues and information that might not be
shared verbally this will give you a lot
of insight into people's hearts and you
can learn that may
you're in the habit of interrupting
people when they speak it'll awaken your
inner voice everyone has that voice that
makes you you when was the last time you
heard it as you grow older and are faced
with more challenges and
responsibilities it can become harder
and harder to listen to that inner voice
hold days weeks and months can go by
when people are in auto mode going
through the routine and forgetting to
tune in being silent means you have the
opportunity to listen to that voice hear
what it wants how it feels if it's happy
or sad and if it needs to try something
new to get more satisfaction from life
listening to that inner voice will be
like plunging your head into a bucket of
cold water
it might be the thing you need to get
you out of a funk if this sounds like
the exact thing you need right now go
ahead and try it to go full out you can
also reduce the level of noise in your
environment by turning off electronics
and engaging with a book going for a
walk reconnecting with nature or doing
yoga or stretching at home your vocal
cords will be perfectly all right
afterward you'll still be able to holler
sing in the shower and talk your friends
ear off the only difference is that
you'll feel much more in tune with
yourself and more at peace if you aren't
ready for such a big jump you can always
do a digital vow of silence from social
media instead and abstain from using it
for a few days to keep your world a
little more peaceful so tell us bright
Siders
will you give silence a try let us know
in the comments section don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side